DOCS-6415-(was-DOCS-5652-v2)-appdev-duke (#932)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/pages/mule-app-dev-helloworld.adoc

= Hello Mule Tutorial
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> To demonstrate a simple HTTP request-response flow, this example responds

Reviewer: Because the final sentence kind of repeats the first, suggest the following:
```suggestion
To demonstrate how a Mule application interacts with a user in a simple HTTP request-response flow, this example responds
```
OR
```suggestion
The following example demonstrates how a Mule application interacts with a user in a simple HTTP request-response flow, responding to user web requests with the message "Hello Mule."
```

Author: ok, using #1

Author: We want to emphasize up front that this is an HTTP request-response flow

Author: done

> with the message "Hello Mule" to requests submitted from a Web browser.

Reviewer: Web > web

Author: done via DOCS-6415-v2, https://github.com/mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime/pull/1041/files#diff-c16475c1883b325ac6bc1be578e90cea

> The example demonstrates how a Mule application interacts with a user over an

Reviewer: Omit, per above:
```suggestion
```

Author: done

> HTTP request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: done

You set up and run this application as a project in Anypoint Studio. In a more
complex application, it is possible to do much more than this simple example
shows. For example, you can connect to external servers (such as SAP,
Salesforce, a database, or an FTP server), import and implement API
specifications directly within a Mule project, set up security, and process and
transform the data in programmatic ways. It is beyond the scope of this

> example to explore such tasks.

Reviewer: You set up and run this application as a project in Anypoint Studio. 

Note that is a very simple example. In a more
complex application, you can connect to external servers (such as SAP,
Salesforce, a database, or an FTP server), import and implement API
specifications directly within a Mule project, set up security, and process and
transform the data in programmatic ways. It is beyond the scope of this
example to explore such tasks.

Author: revised per ☝️

.hellomule in Studio
image::hellomule.png[Hello Mule]

> == Prerequisites

Reviewer: I suggest a simple bullet list of fragments for prereqs; see below.

> xref:studio::to-download-and-install-studio.adoc[Studio 7] is required.

Reviewer: * xref:studio::to-download-and-install-studio.adoc[Studio 7]
* Familiarity with the Anypoint Studio UI (palette, canvas, flow), as documented in xref:docs-studio::index.adoc[Anypoint Studio]

> xref:7.3@studio::to-download-and-install-studio.adoc[Studio 7] is required.

Reviewer 2: Remember not to specify a version unless it's really necessary (like if the process is not compatible with newer versions). 
This link will need to be updated when 7.4 is released.

Author: 👍

Once Studio is installed, you can set up and run the example. The example
assumes that you have basic familiarity with the Studio UI, including
the Mule Palette and the Studio canvas, where you drag and drop Mule components
and connector operations into a Mule flow. If you do not, review these topics

> in the Studio overview, xref:docs-studio::index.adoc[Anypoint Studio].

Reviewer: Suggest replacing, as indicated above.

Author: added

== How the Example Works

The Hello Mule example consists of one simple Mule flow. This flow accepts an
HTTP request, sets a static payload on the message, and then returns a response
to you.

The request-response inbound HTTP endpoint receives requests the end user

> submits to the Web service. Because the message-exchange pattern is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
submits to the web service. Because the message-exchange pattern is
```

Author: fixed

request-response, this HTTP endpoint is responsible for both receiving and
returning messages. The descriptive notes included in the configuration of the
endpoint can help you understand the actions the endpoint performs.

As its name suggests, the Set Payload component sets a value in the message

> payload. In this example, the value utilizes a Mule expression to set a static

Reviewer: ```suggestion
payload. In this example, the value uses a Mule expression to set a static
```

Author: done

string on the payload. Like the HTTP endpoint, the configuration contains
descriptive notes to help you understand what the component does.

== Set Up the Example

> Follow these steps to create example in your own instance of Studio. Note that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow these steps to create the example in your own instance of Studio. Note that
```

Author: done

you can create template applications in Studio and tweak the configurations
of the use case-based templates to create your own customized applications in
Mule.

. Create a project in Studio named "HelloMule" by selecting
*File* > *New* > *Mule Project*, providing the *Project Name*, and clicking
*Finish*.
+
Notice that the project name does not contain any blank spaces.
+
. In the project's *Mule Palette* tab, click *HTTP*, and drag the *Listener*
operation into the the *Source* section of the *hellomuleFlow*.

> . In the Studio canvas, click the *Listener* to open its configuration UI in

Reviewer: "...click the *Listener*..." control?  tool?  tab? 
Please give the label *Listener* a common noun object.

Author: done, added "operation"

> its *Listener* tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the *Listener* tab.
```

Author: done

+

> . In the listener's *Connector configuration* field, click the *+*, use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the listener's *Connector configuration* field, click *+*, use
```

Author: done

*Test connection* to check that the default configuration works, and then click
*OK* to add the configuration to the project.
+
* If the connection is successful, you see the message "Test connection successful!"
in a *Test connection* dialog that pops up.
* If the connection fails, try using a port number that is not in use, such as
`8082` or `8083`, retest the connection, and then add the configuration.
+
. In the listener's *Path* field, type the path `/hellomule`.
+
The example uses this path in a web browser to trigger the listener.
+

> . From the *Mule Palette*, click *Core*, and then find and drag a Set Payload

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. From the *Mule Palette* view, click *Core*, and then find and drag a Set Payload
```

Author: done

component to the *Process* area of the Studio canvas.
+
If you do not find *Set Payload*, try the search field at the top of the

> *Mule Palette*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Mule Palette* view.
```

Author: done

+
. From the Studio canvas, click the Set Payload component to open its

> configuration UI in its *Set Payload* tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configuration UI in the *Set Payload* tab.
```

Author: done

> . In the component's *Value* field, _deselect_ the *fx* field, and type the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the component's *Value* field, _deselect_ the *fx* field and type the
```

Author: done

> string `Hello Mule!`, surrounded by quotes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
string `"Hello Mule!"` (including the quotation marks).
```

Author: done

+

> When you deselect *fx* the value only contains the string `Hello Mule`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you deselect *fx*, the value contains only the string `Hello Mule`
```

Author: done

_and does not contain_

> a hash or square brackets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a hash mark (#) or square brackets ( [ ] ).
```

Author: done, Just FYI: have to use HTML code &#35; for the hash (in the backticks) due to the way the doc builder interprets it. It's otherwise invisible in the HTML.

+

> . From the *Mule Palette*, click *Core*, and then find and drag a Logger

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. From the *Mule Palette* view, click *Core*, and then find and drag a Logger
```

Author: actually, I think it's a Mule Palette tab. I've changed it everywhere.

component to the right of the Transform Message component.
+
If you do not find *Logger*, try the search field at the top of the

> *Mule Palette*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Mule Palette* view.
```

Author: tab

+
. From the Studio canvas, click the Logger component to open its configuration

> UI in its *Logger* tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
UI in the *Logger* tab.
```

Author: done

> . In the logger's *Message* field, click the *fx* button, and add the following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the logger's *Message* field, click the *fx* button and add the following
```

Author: done

> expression for printing the request path to the Studio console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
expression for printing the request path to the Studio console:
```

Author: done

+
`attributes.requestPath`
+

> . Save the project by selecting *File* -> *Save* from Studio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Save the project by selecting *File* > *Save* from Studio.
```

Author: the -> actually looks good in the HTML output.

. Proceed to <<run_example>>.

[[run_example]]
== Run and Execute the Hello Mule Example

After setting up Hello Mule in Studio, you can run and test it.

. Run your *hellomule* app by right-clicking within the Studio canvas and
selecting *Run project hellomule*.
+

> Alternatively, you can click Run button (image:run_button.png[Run button,25px,15px])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can click the Run button (image:run_button.png[Run button,25px,15px])
```

Author: done

the one that follows, try setting a new HTTP port in your HTTP listener
configuration:
`Could not create server: A server in port(8081) already exists for host(0.0.0.0) or one overlapping it (0.0.0.0).`
Then save and rerun your project. Note that you can also try changing the host
to `localhost` if the failure persists.
+
The project is running if you see a message that ends something like this in the
Studio console:
+
[source,txt,linenums]
----
**********************************************************
*          - - + DOMAIN + - -   * - - + STATUS + - - *
**********************************************************
* default                       * DEPLOYED           *
**********************************************************

*******************************************************************************
*    - - + APPLICATION + - -    *  - - + DOMAIN + - -    * - - + STATUS + - - *
*******************************************************************************
* hellomule                     * default                * DEPLOYED           *
*******************************************************************************
----
+

> . Once your application is running, open a browser window, and provide load

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. After your application is running, open a browser window and provide 
```

Author: done

> the URL to the listener, for example, `+http://0.0.0.0:8081/hellomule+`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the URL to the listener: for example, `+http://0.0.0.0:8081/hellomule+`.
```

Author: done

+

> You must use the same host and port that is configured in the HTTP listener.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must use the same host and port as configured in the HTTP listener.
```

Author: done

+

> . Check for the following message in the browser: `Hello Mule!`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check for the message `Hello Mule!` in the browser.
```

Author: done
